README.md, before:

# Express/Passport with React
This version uses React to control the login requests and redirection in coordination with client-side routing.

### Prerequisites

Before you get started, make sure you have the following software installed on your computer:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [PostrgeSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
- [Nodemon](https://nodemon.io/)

## Starting the project

### Create database and table

Create a new database called `prime_app` and create a `person` table:

```SQL
CREATE TABLE person (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    username VARCHAR (80) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
    password VARCHAR (1000) NOT NULL
);
```

If you would like to name your database something else, you will need to change `prime_app` to the name of your new database name in `server/modules/pool.js`

### Development Setup Instructions

* Run `npm install`
* Create a `.env` file at the root of the project and paste this line into the file:
    ```
    REACT_APP_API_BASE_URL=http://localhost:5000/api
    SERVER_SESSION_SECRET=superDuperSecret
    ```
    While you're in your new `.env` file, take the time to replace `superDuperSecret` with some long random string like `25POUbVtx6RKVNWszd9ERB9Bb6` to keep your application secure. Here's a site that can help you: [https://passwordsgenerator.net/](https://passwordsgenerator.net/). If you don't do this step, create a secret with less than eight characters, or leave it as `superDuperSecret`, you will get a warning.
* Start postgres if not running already by using `brew services start postgresql`
* Run `npm run dev`
* Navigate to `localhost:3000`

### Debugging

To debug, you will need to run the client-side separately from the server. Start the client by running the command `npm run dev:client`. Start the debugging server by selecting the Debug button.

![VSCode Toolbar](documentation/images/vscode-toolbar.png)

Then make sure `Launch Program` is selected from the dropdown, then click the green play arrow.

![VSCode Debug Bar](documentation/images/vscode-debug-bar.png)

### Production Build

This is the build Heroku will run, but during development, you will likely not need to use it.

* Start postgres if not running already by using `brew services start postgresql`
* Run `npm start`
* Navigate to `localhost:5000`

## Lay of the Land

* `src/` contains the React application
* `public/` contains static assets for the client-side
* `build/` contains the transpiled code from `src/` and `public/` that will be viewed on the production site
* `server/` contains the Express App

## Linting

The Airbnb ESLint for react is a part of this project. If you would like to take advantage of this in VS Code, you can add the `ESLint` extension. Click the `Extensions` button (the button right below the `Debug`) and search for `ESLint`. Click `install` for the first result and then click `Reload`. Then it should be all set up!

![VSCode Toolbar](documentation/images/vscode-toolbar.png)

## Deployment

1. Create a new Heroku project
1. Link the Heroku project to the project GitHub Repo
1. Create an Herkoku Postgres database
1. Connect to the Heroku Postgres database from Postico
1. Create the necessary tables
1. Add an environment variable for `SERVER_SESSION_SECRET` with a nice random string for security
1. In the deploy section, select manual deploy

Commit message:

update README sections so Starting the project isn't so bloated

README.md, after:

# Express/Passport with React
This version uses React to control the login requests and redirection in coordination with client-side routing.

We **STONGLY** recommend following these instructions carefully. It's a lot, and will take some time to set up, but your life will be much easier this way in the long run.

## Prerequisites

Before you get started, make sure you have the following software installed on your computer:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [PostrgeSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
- [Nodemon](https://nodemon.io/)

## Create database and table

Create a new database called `prime_app` and create a `person` table:

```SQL
CREATE TABLE person (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    username VARCHAR (80) UNIQUE NOT NULL,
    password VARCHAR (1000) NOT NULL
);
```

If you would like to name your database something else, you will need to change `prime_app` to the name of your new database name in `server/modules/pool.js`

## Development Setup Instructions

* Run `npm install`
* Create a `.env` file at the root of the project and paste this line into the file:
    ```
    REACT_APP_API_BASE_URL=http://localhost:5000/api
    SERVER_SESSION_SECRET=superDuperSecret
    ```
    While you're in your new `.env` file, take the time to replace `superDuperSecret` with some long random string like `25POUbVtx6RKVNWszd9ERB9Bb6` to keep your application secure. Here's a site that can help you: [https://passwordsgenerator.net/](https://passwordsgenerator.net/). If you don't do this step, create a secret with less than eight characters, or leave it as `superDuperSecret`, you will get a warning.
* Start postgres if not running already by using `brew services start postgresql`
* Run `npm run dev`
* Navigate to `localhost:3000`

## Debugging

To debug, you will need to run the client-side separately from the server. Start the client by running the command `npm run dev:client`. Start the debugging server by selecting the Debug button.

![VSCode Toolbar](documentation/images/vscode-toolbar.png)

Then make sure `Launch Program` is selected from the dropdown, then click the green play arrow.

![VSCode Debug Bar](documentation/images/vscode-debug-bar.png)

## Linting

The Airbnb ESLint for react is a part of this project. If you would like to take advantage of this in VS Code, you can add the `ESLint` extension. Click the `Extensions` button (the button right below the `Debug`) and search for `ESLint`. Click `install` for the first result and then click `Reload`. Then it should be all set up!

![VSCode Toolbar](documentation/images/vscode-toolbar.png)

## Production Build

This is the build Heroku will run, but during development, you will likely not need to use it.

* Start postgres if not running already by using `brew services start postgresql`
* Run `npm start`
* Navigate to `localhost:5000`

## Lay of the Land

* `src/` contains the React application
* `public/` contains static assets for the client-side
* `build/` after you build the project, contains the transpiled code from `src/` and `public/` that will be viewed on the production site
* `server/` contains the Express App

## Deployment

1. Create a new Heroku project
1. Link the Heroku project to the project GitHub Repo
1. Create an Herkoku Postgres database
1. Connect to the Heroku Postgres database from Postico
1. Create the necessary tables
1. Add an environment variable for `SERVER_SESSION_SECRET` with a nice random string for security
1. In the deploy section, select manual deploy
